#summary Detailed description of GLVis's features
#labels Featured

= GLVis Features =

The goal of GLVis is to enable research and development of general finite element discretization algorithms through accurate OpenGL visualization, and tight integration with the [http://mfem.googlecode.com MFEM] library.

Though depending on MFEM for its finite element dictionary, GLVis can be used independently for parallel and serial visualization. For example, the _[http://www.llnl.gov/casc/hypre hypre]_ library includes scripts for displaying the numerical results from its parallel example codes through GLVis.

==Accurate Visualization==

GLVis uses OpenGL with interactive refinement to accurately represent curved high-order [http://code.google.com/p/glvis/wiki/OptionsAndUse#Visualizing_meshes meshes] and a wide variety of finite element [http://code.google.com/p/glvis/wiki/OptionsAndUse#Visualizing_functions grid functions] defined on them. GLVis is based on the modular finite element methods library [http://mfem.googlecode.com MFEM], which supports in particular:

  * 1D, 2D, 3D volume and surface meshes,
  * triangular, quadrilateral, tetrahedral and hexahedral meshes,
  * general [http://code.google.com/p/glvis/wiki/MeshFormats curvilinear] and [http://code.google.com/p/glvis/wiki/NURBS NURBS] meshes,
  * input in unstructured [http://code.google.com/p/glvis/wiki/CurvilinearVTKMeshes VTK mesh format],
  * arbitrary high-order, scalar and vector finite element and NURBS solutions,
  * accurate cutting planes and level lines/surfaces,
  * visualization of parallel meshes and solutions.

==Lightweight and Convenient==

GLVis has a fast [http://glvis.googlecode.com/hg/README keystroke-based] interface and uses standard OpenGL that takes advantage of hardware acceleration in modern GPUs. It has a number of convenient features, including:

  * unlimited number of refinement and de-refinement levels,
  * interactive rotation, translation and scaling with the mouse,
  * support for different perspectives, materials, lighting, color schemes and transparency
  * processor and element shrinking for better visualization of the interior of 3D meshes
  * antialiased meshes and fonts,
  * screenshots in PNG or TIFF format,

==Flexible Server and Scripting Support==

When started without any options, GLVis [http://code.google.com/p/glvis/wiki/OptionsAndUse#Server_mode establishes a server], which waits for socket connections and visualizes any received data in a separate interactive window. This enables:

  * simultaneous visualization of [http://doxygen.mfem.googlecode.com/hg/examples/README_files/index.html?darcy multiple fields/meshes] in separate GLVis windows,
  * [http://doxygen.mfem.googlecode.com/hg/examples/README_files/index.html?rk persistent] visualization of time-evolving fields,
  * local visualization of [https://code.google.com/p/glvis/wiki/ParallelVisualization parallel] meshes and solutions sent to the server by separate socket connections from each core of a remote parallel machine,
  * saving and displaying of [http://code.google.com/p/glvis/wiki/OptionsAndUse#Server_mode socket stream data].

GLVis can also run a [http://code.google.com/p/glvis/wiki/OptionsAndUse#GLVis_scripts batch sequence] of commands (GLVis scripts), which enable precise control of particular visualization scenes, and can be useful for making animations.

== Open Source  ==

GLVis is an open-source software, and can be freely used under the terms of the [https://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-2.1.html LGPL 2.1] license.